1. What is Shell?

A shell acts as an interface between the user and the system. As a command interpreter, the shell takes commands and sets them up for execution.

2. Can you please let me know how many types of shells and what are their indicators?

sh – Bourne shell
csh – C SHell
bash – Bourne Again Shell
tcsh – enhanced C Shell
zsh – Z SHell
ksh – Korn SHell

3. What is a directory?

Every file is assigned to a directory. A directory is a specialized form of a file that maintains a list of all files in it.

4. Describe the usage and functionality of the command “rm –r *” in UNIX?

Answer: The command “rm –r *” is a single line command to erase all files in a directory with its subdirectories.

5. What is the command to find today’s date?

6. How to display the last line of a file?

Answer: This can be performed using either “tail” or “sed” commands. The easiest way is to use the “tail” command.

7. What is the command to find the currently running process in Unix Server?
How to Kill a process in UNIX?

8. What is the command to find maximum memory taking process on the server?
A. TOP

9. What is the command to find hidden files in the current directory?

Answer: ‘ls –lrta’ command is used to display hidden files in the current directory.

10. What is the UNIX command to make a new directory?

11. What is the UNIX command to confirm a remote host is alive or not?

Answer: Either “ping” or “telnet” command can be used to confirm a remote host is alive or not.

12. What is the method to see command line history?

Answer: The “history” command displays all the commands used previously within the session. 

13. What is the command to find if the system is 32 bit or 64 bit?

Answer: “arch” or “uname -a” can be used for this process.

14. Explain ‘nohup’ in UNIX?

15. What is the UNIX command to find how many days the server is up?

Answer: “uptime” command returns the number of dates that the server is up.

16. What is the purpose of the “echo” command?

Answer: “echo” command is similar to the “ls” command and it displays all the files in the current directory.

17. How will you find the 99th line of a file using only tail and head command?( 80% asked Unix Scripting Interview Questions )

Answer:

tail +99 file1|head -1

18. If user wants to give all permissions to file which command is useful?

Answer:

chmod 477 Permission_File  

SQL:

1. How do you find the duplicate rows in a table?

select emp_name, count(*) from employee group by emp_name having count(*) > 1

2. how many types of DATA structure and explain it?
DDL:create , alter, drop, truncate
DML:Insert, Update delete
DCL:grant, Revoke
TCL:Commit, Rollback

3. what is Join? and how many types?
A. Join is a combination of 2 tables.

4. Difference b/w delete and truncate?
A. delete cheysina mali retrive cheysukovachu but in truncate we can't.

5. What do you mean by table and field in SQL?
A table refers to a collection of data in an organised manner in form of rows and columns.

6.List the ways to get the count of records in a table?
A. SELECT * FROM table1

SELECT COUNT(*) FROM table1

7. What is a primary key?

A primary key is a combination of fields which uniquely specify a row.

8. How to find today's date?

A. select sysdate from dual;

9.what is view and its syntax
A. view is nthing but logical representation of data and its acts like table
   syntax : create view viewname as select * from table;

10.what is alias name ?
A. Alias name is uesd for table names.
   syntax : select * from emp e;
